README.md, before:

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/evollu/react-native-fcm](https://badges.gitter.im/evollu/react-native-fcm.svg)](https://gitter.im/evollu/react-native-fcm?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

## Installation

- Run `npm install react-native-fcm --save`
- Run `react-native link react-native-fcm` (RN 0.29.1+, otherwise `rnpm link react-native-fcm`)

## Android Configuration

- Edit `android/build.gradle`:
```diff
  dependencies {
    classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:2.0.0'
+   classpath 'com.google.gms:google-services:3.0.0'
```

- Edit `android/app/build.gradle`:
```diff
  apply plugin: "com.android.application"
+ apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services'
```

- Edit `android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml`:

```diff
  <application
    ...
    android:theme="@style/AppTheme">

+   <service android:name="com.evollu.react.fcm.MessagingService">
+     <intent-filter>
+       <action android:name="com.google.firebase.MESSAGING_EVENT"/>
+     </intent-filter>
+   </service>

+   <service android:name="com.evollu.react.fcm.InstanceIdService" android:exported="false">
+     <intent-filter>
+       <action android:name="com.google.firebase.INSTANCE_ID_EVENT"/>
+     </intent-filter>
+   </service>

    ...
```

### Config for notification and `click_action` in Android

To allow android to respond to `click_action`, you need to define Activities and filter on specific intent. Since all javascript is running in MainActivity, you can have MainActivity to handle actions:

Edit `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```diff
  <activity
    android:name=".MainActivity"
    android:label="@string/app_name"
    android:windowSoftInputMode="adjustResize"
+   android:launchMode="singleTop"
    android:configChanges="keyboard|keyboardHidden|orientation|screenSize">
    <intent-filter>
      <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
    </intent-filter>
+   <intent-filter>
+     <action android:name="fcm.ACTION.HELLO" />
+     <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
+   </intent-filter>
  </activity>
```

Notes:
- `launchMode="singleTop"` is to reuse MainActivity
- replace `"fcm.ACTION.HELLO"` by the `click_action` you want to match


And pass intent into package, edit `MainActivity.java`:

- RN 0.28+:

```diff
  import com.facebook.react.ReactActivity;
+ import android.content.Intent;

  public class MainActivity extends ReactActivity {

+   @Override
+   public void onNewIntent (Intent intent) {
+     super.onNewIntent(intent);
+       setIntent(intent);
+   }       
```

- RN <= 0.27:

```diff
  import com.facebook.react.ReactActivity;
+ import android.content.Intent;

  public class MainActivity extends ReactActivity {

+   @Override
+   protected void onNewIntent (Intent intent) {
+     super.onNewIntent(intent);
+       setIntent(intent);
+   }       
```

Notes:
- `@Override` is added to update intent on notification click

## IOS Configuration

### Pod approach:

Make sure you have Cocoapods version > 1.0

Install the `Firebase/Messaging` pod:
```
cd ios && pod init
pod install Firebase/Messaging
```

### Non Cocoapod approach

1. Download the Firebase SDK framework from [Integrate without CocoaPods](https://firebase.google.com/docs/ios/setup#frameworks)
2. Follow the `README` to link frameworks (Analytics+Messaging)

### Shared steps

Edit `AppDelegate.m`:
```diff
+ #import "Firebase.h" // if you are using Non Cocoapod approach
+ #import "RNFIRMessaging.h"
  //...

  - (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:(NSDictionary *)launchOptions
  {
  //...
+   [FIRApp configure];
  }

+ - (void)application:(UIApplication *)application didReceiveRemoteNotification:(NSDictionary *)notification fetchCompletionHandler:(void (^)(UIBackgroundFetchResult))handler {
+   [[NSNotificationCenter defaultCenter] postNotificationName:FCMNotificationReceived object:self userInfo:notification];
+   handler(UIBackgroundFetchResultNewData);
+ }
```

### FCM config file

In [firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com/), you can get `google-services.json` file and place it in `android/app` directory and get `GoogleService-Info.plist` file and place it in `/ios/your-project-name` directory (next to your `Info.plist`)

## Usage

```javascript
import FCM from 'react-native-fcm';

class App extends Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    FCM.requestPermissions(); // for iOS
    FCM.getFCMToken().then(token => {
      console.log(token)
      // store fcm token in your server
    });
    this.notificationUnsubscribe = FCM.on('notification', (notif) => {
      // there are two parts of notif. notif.notification contains the notification payload, notif.data contains data payload
    });
    this.refreshUnsubscribe = FCM.on('refreshToken', (token) => {
      console.log(token)
      // fcm token may not be available on first load, catch it here
    });

    FCM.subscribeToTopic('/topics/foo-bar');
    FCM.unsubscribeFromTopic('/topics/foo-bar');
  }

  componentWillUnmount() {
    // prevent leaking
    this.refreshUnsubscribe();
    this.notificationUnsubscribe();
  }
}
```

### Behaviour when sending `notification` and `data` payload through GCM
- When app is not running when user clicks notification, notification data will be passed into `FCM.initialData`

- When app is running in background (the tricky one, I strongly suggest you try it out yourself)
 - IOS will receive notificaton from `FCMNotificationReceived` event
    * if you pass `content_available` flag true, you will receive one when app is in background and another one when user resume the app. [more info](http://www.rahuljiresal.com/2015/03/retract-push-notifications-on-ios/)
    * if you just pass `notification`, you will only receive one when user resume the app.
    * you will not see banner if `notification->body` is not defined.
 - Android will receive notificaton from `FCMNotificationReceived` event
    * if you pass `notification` payload. it will receive data when user click on notification
    * if you pass `data` payload only, it will receive data when in background

   e.g. fcm payload looks like:

   ```json
   {
      "to":"some_device_token",
      "content_available": true,
      "notification": {
          "title": "hello",
          "body": "yo",
          "click_action": "fcm.ACTION.HELLO"
      },
      "data": {
          "extra":"juice"
      }
    }
    ```

    and event callback will receive as:
    
    - Android
      ```json
      {
        "fcm": {"action": "fcm.ACTION.HELLO"},
        "extra": "juice"
      }
      ```
    
    - iOS
      ```json
      {
        "apns": {"action_category": "fcm.ACTION.HELLO"},
        "extra": "juice"
      }
      ```

- When app is running in foreground
 - IOS will receive notification and android **won't** (better not to do anything in foreground for hybrid and send a seprate data message.)

NOTE: it is recommend not to rely on `data` payload for click_action as it can be overwritten (check [this](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/33738848/handle-multiple-notifications-with-gcm)).

## Q & A

#### My Android build is failing
Try update your SDK and google play service

#### I can't get notification when app is killed
If you send notification with `data` only, you can only get the data message when app is in foreground or background. Killed app doesn't trigger `FCMNotificationReceived`. Use `notification` in the payload instead.

#### App running in background doesn't trigger `FCMNotificationReceived` when receiving hybrid notification [Android]
These is [an issue opened for that](https://github.com/google/gcm/issues/63). Behavior is not consistent between 2 platforms

#### Android notification is showing a white icon
Since Lollipop, the push notification icon is required to be all white, otherwise it will be a white circle.

#### iOS not receiving notification when the app running in the background
- Try adding Background Modes permission in Xcode->Click on project file->Capabilities tab->Background Modes->Remote Notifications

#### I am using Proguard
You need to add this to your `android/app/proguard-rules.pro`:
```
# Google Play Services
-keep class com.google.android.gms.** { *; }
-dontwarn com.google.android.gms.**
```

#### Some features are missing
Issues and pull requests are welcome. Let's make this thing better!

Commit message:

Update README.md with correct "apply plugin" position
Inserting the `apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services'` where it currently suggests (at the top of the file) is not recommended.  If you keep it at the top and use other libraries dependent on other google services, it's possible to surface version conflicts and `DexException`s with misleading origins.

See [Google's recommendation for installing the Google Services gradle plugin](https://developers.google.com/android/guides/google-services-plugin).

README.md, after:

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/evollu/react-native-fcm](https://badges.gitter.im/evollu/react-native-fcm.svg)](https://gitter.im/evollu/react-native-fcm?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

## Installation

- Run `npm install react-native-fcm --save`
- Run `react-native link react-native-fcm` (RN 0.29.1+, otherwise `rnpm link react-native-fcm`)

## Android Configuration

- Edit `android/build.gradle`:
```diff
  dependencies {
    classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:2.0.0'
+   classpath 'com.google.gms:google-services:3.0.0'
```

- Edit `android/app/build.gradle`:
```diff
// Add to the bottom of the file so that no dependency collisions are introduced
+ apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services'
```

- Edit `android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml`:

```diff
  <application
    ...
    android:theme="@style/AppTheme">

+   <service android:name="com.evollu.react.fcm.MessagingService">
+     <intent-filter>
+       <action android:name="com.google.firebase.MESSAGING_EVENT"/>
+     </intent-filter>
+   </service>

+   <service android:name="com.evollu.react.fcm.InstanceIdService" android:exported="false">
+     <intent-filter>
+       <action android:name="com.google.firebase.INSTANCE_ID_EVENT"/>
+     </intent-filter>
+   </service>

    ...
```

### Config for notification and `click_action` in Android

To allow android to respond to `click_action`, you need to define Activities and filter on specific intent. Since all javascript is running in MainActivity, you can have MainActivity to handle actions:

Edit `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```diff
  <activity
    android:name=".MainActivity"
    android:label="@string/app_name"
    android:windowSoftInputMode="adjustResize"
+   android:launchMode="singleTop"
    android:configChanges="keyboard|keyboardHidden|orientation|screenSize">
    <intent-filter>
      <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
    </intent-filter>
+   <intent-filter>
+     <action android:name="fcm.ACTION.HELLO" />
+     <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
+   </intent-filter>
  </activity>
```

Notes:
- `launchMode="singleTop"` is to reuse MainActivity
- replace `"fcm.ACTION.HELLO"` by the `click_action` you want to match


And pass intent into package, edit `MainActivity.java`:

- RN 0.28+:

```diff
  import com.facebook.react.ReactActivity;
+ import android.content.Intent;

  public class MainActivity extends ReactActivity {

+   @Override
+   public void onNewIntent (Intent intent) {
+     super.onNewIntent(intent);
+       setIntent(intent);
+   }       
```

- RN <= 0.27:

```diff
  import com.facebook.react.ReactActivity;
+ import android.content.Intent;

  public class MainActivity extends ReactActivity {

+   @Override
+   protected void onNewIntent (Intent intent) {
+     super.onNewIntent(intent);
+       setIntent(intent);
+   }       
```

Notes:
- `@Override` is added to update intent on notification click

## IOS Configuration

### Pod approach:

Make sure you have Cocoapods version > 1.0

Install the `Firebase/Messaging` pod:
```
cd ios && pod init
pod install Firebase/Messaging
```

### Non Cocoapod approach

1. Download the Firebase SDK framework from [Integrate without CocoaPods](https://firebase.google.com/docs/ios/setup#frameworks)
2. Follow the `README` to link frameworks (Analytics+Messaging)

### Shared steps

Edit `AppDelegate.m`:
```diff
+ #import "Firebase.h" // if you are using Non Cocoapod approach
+ #import "RNFIRMessaging.h"
  //...

  - (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:(NSDictionary *)launchOptions
  {
  //...
+   [FIRApp configure];
  }

+ - (void)application:(UIApplication *)application didReceiveRemoteNotification:(NSDictionary *)notification fetchCompletionHandler:(void (^)(UIBackgroundFetchResult))handler {
+   [[NSNotificationCenter defaultCenter] postNotificationName:FCMNotificationReceived object:self userInfo:notification];
+   handler(UIBackgroundFetchResultNewData);
+ }
```

### FCM config file

In [firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com/), you can get `google-services.json` file and place it in `android/app` directory and get `GoogleService-Info.plist` file and place it in `/ios/your-project-name` directory (next to your `Info.plist`)

## Usage

```javascript
import FCM from 'react-native-fcm';

class App extends Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    FCM.requestPermissions(); // for iOS
    FCM.getFCMToken().then(token => {
      console.log(token)
      // store fcm token in your server
    });
    this.notificationUnsubscribe = FCM.on('notification', (notif) => {
      // there are two parts of notif. notif.notification contains the notification payload, notif.data contains data payload
    });
    this.refreshUnsubscribe = FCM.on('refreshToken', (token) => {
      console.log(token)
      // fcm token may not be available on first load, catch it here
    });

    FCM.subscribeToTopic('/topics/foo-bar');
    FCM.unsubscribeFromTopic('/topics/foo-bar');
  }

  componentWillUnmount() {
    // prevent leaking
    this.refreshUnsubscribe();
    this.notificationUnsubscribe();
  }
}
```

### Behaviour when sending `notification` and `data` payload through GCM
- When app is not running when user clicks notification, notification data will be passed into `FCM.initialData`

- When app is running in background (the tricky one, I strongly suggest you try it out yourself)
 - IOS will receive notificaton from `FCMNotificationReceived` event
    * if you pass `content_available` flag true, you will receive one when app is in background and another one when user resume the app. [more info](http://www.rahuljiresal.com/2015/03/retract-push-notifications-on-ios/)
    * if you just pass `notification`, you will only receive one when user resume the app.
    * you will not see banner if `notification->body` is not defined.
 - Android will receive notificaton from `FCMNotificationReceived` event
    * if you pass `notification` payload. it will receive data when user click on notification
    * if you pass `data` payload only, it will receive data when in background

   e.g. fcm payload looks like:

   ```json
   {
      "to":"some_device_token",
      "content_available": true,
      "notification": {
          "title": "hello",
          "body": "yo",
          "click_action": "fcm.ACTION.HELLO"
      },
      "data": {
          "extra":"juice"
      }
    }
    ```

    and event callback will receive as:
    
    - Android
      ```json
      {
        "fcm": {"action": "fcm.ACTION.HELLO"},
        "extra": "juice"
      }
      ```
    
    - iOS
      ```json
      {
        "apns": {"action_category": "fcm.ACTION.HELLO"},
        "extra": "juice"
      }
      ```

- When app is running in foreground
 - IOS will receive notification and android **won't** (better not to do anything in foreground for hybrid and send a seprate data message.)

NOTE: it is recommend not to rely on `data` payload for click_action as it can be overwritten (check [this](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/33738848/handle-multiple-notifications-with-gcm)).

## Q & A

#### My Android build is failing
Try update your SDK and google play service

#### I can't get notification when app is killed
If you send notification with `data` only, you can only get the data message when app is in foreground or background. Killed app doesn't trigger `FCMNotificationReceived`. Use `notification` in the payload instead.

#### App running in background doesn't trigger `FCMNotificationReceived` when receiving hybrid notification [Android]
These is [an issue opened for that](https://github.com/google/gcm/issues/63). Behavior is not consistent between 2 platforms

#### Android notification is showing a white icon
Since Lollipop, the push notification icon is required to be all white, otherwise it will be a white circle.

#### iOS not receiving notification when the app running in the background
- Try adding Background Modes permission in Xcode->Click on project file->Capabilities tab->Background Modes->Remote Notifications

#### I am using Proguard
You need to add this to your `android/app/proguard-rules.pro`:
```
# Google Play Services
-keep class com.google.android.gms.** { *; }
-dontwarn com.google.android.gms.**
```

#### Some features are missing
Issues and pull requests are welcome. Let's make this thing better!
